DIDAttributesServices.md, before:

## Verification Methods

The name of the attribute added should follow this format:
`{type}/{controller}/{algorithm}/{encoding}`

Where `{type}` can be:

- **vm**: for a generic Verification Method
- **auth**: for an Authentication Method
- **asse**: for an Assertion Purpose
- **keya**: for a Key Agreement
- **dele**: for a Delegation Key
- **invo**: for an Invocation Capability Key
- **svc**: for a Service

The `{controller}` represents the Verification Method controller, and can be any string representing a DID. Semantically this value points to a DID that controls the specified cryptographic key. Additionally, this value is not necessarily the DID specified in the `id` DID document property

The `{algorithm}` can be one of the following in compliance with the W3C specification https://w3c.github.io/did-spec-registries/:

- **jwk**: JsonWebKey2020,
- **esecp256k1vk**: EcdsaSecp256k1VerificationKey2019,
- **esecp256k1rm**: EcdsaSecp256k1RecoveryMethod2020,
- **edd25519vk**: Ed25519VerificationKey2018,
- **gpgvk**: GpgVerificationKey2020,
- **rsavk**: RsaVerificationKey2018,
- **x25519ka**: X25519KeyAgreementKey2019,
- **ssecp256k1vk**: SchnorrSecp256k1VerificationKey2019

And the `{encoding}` is the Public Key encoding type, the possible values are:

- **hex**: Hexadecimal -> Produces publicKeyHex field in the DID Document
- **base64**: Base64 -> Produces publicKeyBase64 field in the DID Document
- **base58**: Base58 -> Produces publicKeyBase58 field in the DID Document
- **pem**: PEM X.509 -> Produces publicKeyPem field in the DID Document
- **json**: JSON -> Produces a Json Web Key field in the DID Document

> **Note:** The `{encoding}` only refers to the key encoding in the resolved DID document.
> Attribute values sent to the smart contract registry should always be hex encodings of the raw public key data.

## Service Endpoints

The name of the attribute should follow this format:

`svc//{type}/hex`

Where: `{type}` is the service type field in the DID Document.

And, the `serviceEndpoint` must be in the `value` field of `setAttribute` function.

Commit message:

feat: Add guidelines about the usage of RFC-8785 when adding an attribute by using the 'setAttribute' contract method'
Signed-off-by: eum602 <eum602@gmail.com>

DIDAttributesServices.md, after:

## Verification Methods

The name of the attribute added should follow this format:
`{type}/{controller}/{algorithm}/{encoding}`

Where `{type}` can be:

- **vm**: for a generic Verification Method
- **auth**: for an Authentication Method
- **asse**: for an Assertion Purpose
- **keya**: for a Key Agreement
- **dele**: for a Delegation Key
- **invo**: for an Invocation Capability Key
- **svc**: for a Service

The `{controller}` represents the Verification Method controller, and can be any string representing a DID. Semantically this value points to a DID that controls the specified cryptographic key. Additionally, this value is not necessarily the DID specified in the `id` DID document property

The `{algorithm}` can be one of the following in compliance with the W3C specification https://w3c.github.io/did-spec-registries/:

- **jwk**: JsonWebKey2020,
- **esecp256k1vk**: EcdsaSecp256k1VerificationKey2019,
- **esecp256k1rm**: EcdsaSecp256k1RecoveryMethod2020,
- **edd25519vk**: Ed25519VerificationKey2018,
- **gpgvk**: GpgVerificationKey2020,
- **rsavk**: RsaVerificationKey2018,
- **x25519ka**: X25519KeyAgreementKey2019,
- **ssecp256k1vk**: SchnorrSecp256k1VerificationKey2019

And the `{encoding}` is the Public Key encoding type, the possible values are:

- **hex**: Hexadecimal -> Produces publicKeyHex field in the DID Document
- **base64**: Base64 -> Produces publicKeyBase64 field in the DID Document
- **base58**: Base58 -> Produces publicKeyBase58 field in the DID Document
- **pem**: PEM X.509 -> Produces publicKeyPem field in the DID Document
- **json**: JSON -> Produces a Json Web Key field in the DID Document

> **Note:** The `{encoding}` only refers to the key encoding in the resolved DID document.
> Attribute values sent to the smart contract registry should always be hex encodings of the raw public key data.


### Saving Data to the DID Registry

The method to add attributes to the DID Registry  is `setAttribute`; this has the following method signature:

```js
function setAttribute(
        address identity,
        bytes memory name,
        bytes memory value,
        uint validity
    )
```

To achieve alignment regarding the data being saved, any complex data format such as JSON elements must be canonicalized using [RFC-8785](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8785) before adding them as a `value` parameter in the `setAttribute` method.


## Service Endpoints

The name of the attribute should follow this format:

`svc//{type}/hex`

Where: `{type}` is the service type field in the DID Document.

And, the `serviceEndpoint` must be in the `value` field of `setAttribute` function.
