type-version/0001-0001.md, before:

# Type 0001 - Version 0001

## data-buffer-bytes definition

```sh
data-buffer-bytes = Array.concat(<identifier-bytes>,<did-registry-bytes>,<chain-id-bytes>)
```

- `identifier-bytes` represents the transformation to bytes of the `identifier` (where the identifier is an ethereum address of type Externally Owned Account)
- `did-registry-bytes` represents the transformation to bytes of the `did-registry` (where the did-registry is a contract account pointing to an instance of the [did registry smart contract](./contracts/identity/didRegistry/DIDRegistryRecoverable.sol)).
- `chain-id-bytes` represents the transformation to bytes of the `chainId` (where the chainId is specific for each ethereum network)

## CRUD operations

### Create

1. inputs:
   - identifier: EOA account or have a contract account.
   - did-registry: Have an instance of the did registry which you will use.
   - chain-id where the on-chain did registry was created
2. Compute `data-buffer-bytes`
3. Compute the DID as mentioned in the [Specific identifier definition](../DidSpecs.md) section of the main DID specs

Commit message:

Feat/also known as (#7)
* docs: Add 'alsoKnownAs' specs for LAC1

Signed-off-by: eum602 <eum602@gmail.com>

* feat: Add logic to associate/disassociate an 'alsoKnownAs' identifier to a particular DID

Signed-off-by: eum602 <eum602@gmail.com>

* test: Unit tests for 'alsoKnownAs' identifiers

Signed-off-by: eum602 <eum602@gmail.com>

* feat: Re defines Contract Version to handle major, minor and breaking changes

Signed-off-by: eum602 <eum602@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: eum602 <eum602@gmail.com>

type-version/0001-0001.md, after:

# Type 0001 - Version 0001

## Supported DID Registry Smart Contract versions

From 0.0.0 to above (upper limit might change in the future when a DID Registry version introduces breaking changes regarding this specific type-version specification)

## data-buffer-bytes definition

```sh
data-buffer-bytes = Array.concat(<identifier-bytes>,<did-registry-bytes>,<chain-id-bytes>)
```

- `identifier-bytes` represents the transformation to bytes of the `identifier` (where the identifier is an ethereum address of type Externally Owned Account)
- `did-registry-bytes` represents the transformation to bytes of the `did-registry` (where the did-registry is a contract account pointing to an instance of the [did registry smart contract](./contracts/identity/didRegistry/DIDRegistryRecoverable.sol)).
- `chain-id-bytes` represents the transformation to bytes of the `chainId` (where the chainId is specific for each ethereum network)

## CRUD operations

### Create

1. inputs:
   - identifier: EOA account or have a contract account.
   - did-registry: Have an instance of the did registry which you will use.
   - chain-id where the on-chain did registry was created
2. Compute `data-buffer-bytes`
3. Compute the DID as mentioned in the [Specific identifier definition](../DidSpecs.md) section of the main DID specs
